Addy and I took off Wednesday morning for Chicago Midway from Dallas, then drove 2.5 hours to Kalamazoo, MI, to our hotel room. The competition was to take place in both Three Rivers, MI, and Kalamazoo from Friday to Sunday. We wanted to get there two days early to settle in, get a few workouts in, and get a lay of the land. The rest of our family, who was coming up the next day, stayed in Three Rivers in an Airbnb, while Addy and I stayed in a hotel in Kalamazoo.

When we arrived Wednesday, we checked in and relaxed for about an hour before heading to a local gym called Gnarly Fit, where most of the athletes were doing their pre-event training. As we walked in, Addy immediately commented on how there were so many fit girls there. We didn’t know who was who, but over the course of an hour, we met a few competitors and other athletes competing in the games. The first person we met was Sara from Brazil. From the moment we met Sara, she was all smiles. She barely spoke English, but we managed to communicate a bit about the days ahead. It was Sara’s first time as well.

After training, we made a trip to the grocery store to get stuff for dinner. During our time there, we preferred to cook our own food in the hotel rather than eat out, so Addy could continue to eat foods she was familiar with. We had fun making a teriyaki bowl and were in bed by about 7:30, which is VERY early for me. We talked a bit but mostly kept to ourselves. Addy was asleep by 9 p.m., and I was left to my worry about the days ahead. In fact, I’d been worrying for about a week. This girl has worked so hard to get here. She has done everything right. She never missed a day of training, no matter how tired or busy she was. Addy deserved this shot. She had beaten out around 1,300 girls to get to this final group of 30, and she was really excited about the experience. I prayed hard that night that she would be calm and sleep well and that God would give me what I needed to support her or signals that I should stay out of the way. I finally found sleep around midnight.

Thursday, we slept in. I headed back to the grocery store to get things for breakfast and some other items we needed for the weekend. We had test-run Addy’s nutrition plan a few weeks earlier at the direction of her coach, Sean McGowan. Sean works out of CrossFit Mayhem, and although we’d only been working with him for about three months, he has been amazing. We knew what foods/drinks Addy needed to get the required nutrients during the event, how much, and the timing. A staple was orange juice. It’s easy to get a quick 30 carbs that way. At the grocery store, Addy discovered mango orange juice the day before and loved it. A funny note: when I returned from the grocery store, I went to the neighboring hotel instead of ours. My mind was racing with so many things: logistics, nutrition, sleep, worry, etc. The hotels looked alike, and as these things went through my mind, I made my way up to the 2nd floor and to our room, 2017. I thought it was odd when my key didn’t work at the side door where I usually went in, but even more odd when it wouldn’t open the room. I called Addy to let me in after knocking and getting no answer. She walked to the door and opened it, but I wasn’t there. I was in the wrong hotel (but I guess in the right room, lol).

After finding my way back to the room, we made some great egg white omelets with hash browns and laid around for about an hour before returning to Gnarly Fit for her 30-minute bike session. When we arrived this time, there was a new group of competitors. Addy was intimidated watching them, and so was I. These girls were something. We knew one of them from the open/quarterfinals/semifinals leaderboard, and she had finished ahead of Addy. She was particularly intimidating to Addy, though "intimidating" isn’t quite the right word for Addy’s interpretation. These competitors were “interesting.” She kept a close eye on them and made mental notes. No doubt she was observing how good they appeared to look and move, but she wasn’t scared. I was, lol.

After Gnarly Fit, we headed back to the hotel to get changed for registration. Before heading out, I messaged Joel McManus, Kiera’s dad, who I had reached out to on Facebook Messenger back in early March after the initial stage of the competition, where Kiera and Addy tied for first place in the Open. Kiera and Addy battled it out from March through June in the quarterfinal and semifinal stages, and it was cool to be in contact with him. Kiera is a beast and won all the preliminary competitions to get to the games, but Addy, quite her physical opposite, was on her heels. To finally find out that we were staying in the same hotel and were going to get to meet was amazing. We met in the lobby and spent 20 minutes talking. It was incredible. We had shared the same struggles and triumphs from thousands of miles away and instantly got each other and became friends. Kiera and Addy were, at the same time, two 14-year-old girls trying to find themselves in the world and also elite athletes. We all left for registration after an amazing meet-up.

We walked to registration, and there were some activities outside while we waited: hair braiding, a photo booth, cornhole, poster making, etc. It was there that we ran into Sara again, with a smile on her face, of course. We attempted to communicate; it was more body language than words, but we all understood each other. Shortly after, we went in and queued up. It was so cool to watch Addy get her official credential and try on her bag of clothes, complete with her number (107) and her name on each item. Really freaking cool.

After checking in and getting her gear, we took a tour of the event center where they showed us where the girls would warm up and enter and exit each event, as well as the event floor. We laughed with the other athletes and tried to break the tension of what was to be an epic three days.

As we were leaving the tour and registration, Addy was tapped on the shoulder, and when she turned, it was Sara’s sister, who had a gift for Addy: a sign she made at the poster-making station that said, “Go Addy, you will rock it.” Addy was surprised, and I had tears in my eyes because the second part of what I had prayed for was coming true: Addy was being accepted by her fellow athletes and competitors. First Kiera, and now this. What an amazing gesture. The weekend went on to see Sara compete hard and battle through failure and doubt to go on to do amazing things. More on this to come.

After registration, we went back to the grocery store to get things for dinner and other items we needed for the competition, like a cooler and a few more food items (applesauce, bananas, etc.). We considered making a quick run to see the family at the house in Three Rivers but felt rushed in the store, so we tapped the brakes and concentrated on what she needed for her first day of competition. We loaded up on OJ and bananas and headed back to the hotel. When we got there, I asked if my cousin and her daughter had checked in, and the answer was yes. When we got to the room, I called and invited them down. When they arrived, Addy showed off her swag and started putting together outfits with my cousin Sara’s help (this is a different Sara than Brazilian Sara). We cooked turkey burgers for dinner and went to bed for a 6:45 a.m. drop-off at the Wings Event Center, where the girls would ride the buses down with all the other athletes to the PIT, some 40 minutes away in Three Rivers, for the first day of competition. I dropped Addy off, said hi to our new friends, and got back in the car to drive down to meet Addy, the family, and John Marshall, the owner of CrossFit Richardson, who has been a friend and brother in Christ since before Addy was born. Christy and I started going to CFR about the time both kids were born. They grew up around this community. We grew apart as the kids got older and got into different sports, but we kept attending CFR—my wife more consistently than me. Addy got into gymnastics at a young age, so it made trips to the gym fun because she could play on the rings. Our other good friends, Dwight and Brook, who lived a few doors down, also started a CrossFit gym out of their garage, and Addy was an occasional participant there as well. It’s safe to say she grew up around dumbbells and sweat.

When the pandemic hit, everything changed. No more cheer or school, so we found ourselves working out in our garage every day as a family. These were CrossFit workouts: running, biking, dumbbells, burpees, etc. Addy was showing at an early age that she was strong, but she didn’t know how to push herself. All the workouts were “too easy,” so I would tell her to do it again but faster. Over time, she got the concept, lol.

Ok, back to the story. When I got to the PIT, my family pulled in at the same time, including my brother, who had traveled all the way from Italy. It was so great to see him. We took a van from the parking lot (really a field) to the athlete warm-up area. The PIT is an outdoor location complete with a CrossFit affiliate, trails, ponds, tents, etc. The intent was that the first day would be rugged and then we would head to the arena in Kalamazoo for the following two days. As we dropped Addy off and the family headed over for the opening ceremonies, John called me and said he was on the way. We met outside the athlete warm-up area, and he got to see Addy for the first time that weekend.

To put this in perspective: almost a year before, John sent a text to Addy and Christy saying that Addy could go as far as she wanted with CrossFit, and he would support her the best he could. So here we were, about to start the CrossFit Games after Addy beat out 1,400 girls to get to the top 30 over 11 workouts in the Open, Quarters, and Semifinals from February to June. A very cool moment.

We left Addy and headed over to the opening ceremonies, and it was super cool to watch her walk out as one of 12 girls participating from the U.S. The opening ceremonies concluded with a helicopter drop of three Airborne Rangers who carried in an American flag. With that, we were off.

After a quick briefing, the athletes headed back to the warm-up area, where John and I followed, and Addy and John got to work. Addy knew what to do by now, so I took off to meet the rest of the incoming family while John stayed behind. I eventually made my way back to the warm-up area, where I found them getting loose. The three of us took a moment to say a quick prayer for the weekend, and John and I left.

The first event was a 2,400-meter run followed by a 600-meter obstacle course some 15 minutes later. So, really, event one had two separate parts: 1A and 1B. As we waited for part A to start, we were all amazed at where we were and what was happening. Eventually, the 120 athletes made their way out as this was a mass start over four divisions. Addy’s was first (14–15-year-old girls). With chip timers on their ankles, the timer counted down: 3, 2, 1, and they were off. Addy had worked her way to the front of the pack for the start at John’s request. We both knew she was good at running, but he was the voice that told her that this was one of the events she needed to go out and win. And that’s exactly what she did. They took off, and after a few seconds, we couldn’t see her. Some 9:30 seconds later, Addy rounded the corner of a trail run with hilly terrain and lots of curves, in first place by about 10 seconds. She ran straight into the recovery shed, but she didn’t look like she needed much recovery at all. I was astonished and dizzy. Dizzy because when I saw her round the bend first at the finish line, I screamed louder, harder, and longer than I ever did at any football game in college. As she sat and recovered, the other competitors started filing in. In second place was Kiera. This was a big win for her as a bigger athlete. The fact that she could move heavy weight and come in so high on the run was a sign of why she ended up winning the games. After Kiera was Hailey Pourini, who intimidated Addy when they met at Gnarly Fit during our first two days. But apparently, they had become fast friends on the bus ride down, and with a quick high-five, they were the first three. The rest of the pack that finished after that looked much more beat up, stumbling across the finish line. The heat in Michigan is nothing compared to Texas, but it was still fire-hot for those from other parts of the world. But here we were, with Addy having won 1A. 1B started in heats about 15 minutes later, and Addy was in the last heat, heat 5. Each heat was separated by about 30 seconds, and only 11 of the 30 girls finished before Addy, which gave us a good indication of what was eventually true: she won 1B as well.

We headed back to the house we had rented near the PIT location, and the family welcomed us warmly. We relaxed and ate some lunch, and as we got ready to head back to the PIT for Event 2, we got a notification that it was canceled because of an incoming storm. Addy and I were bummed because many of her competitors were really hurting after the run in that heat, and it was even hotter for the second event of the day, Event 2. This event was going to be hard on Addy because it involved a 70lb D-ball, which represented roughly 70% of Addy’s body weight. As the smallest competitor in the field, this was going to be tough. We would have loved to see her do it against her competitors in this state, but that’s how these competitions go. We hung around for a nice family dinner and then headed back to the hotel 40 minutes away in Kalamazoo. The morning was to start early with a 7:30 a.m. athlete check-in.

The next morning, we checked in, and Addy’s heat was to go off around 9:20. This event was going to be Addy’s worst finish—we already knew that. It was a max combined weight of clean and jerk and snatch, with two attempts each. The girl who won clean and jerked 225lbs, which is insane. Addy PR'd her snatch and matched her previous clean and jerk, but it wasn’t enough, and she finished in 26th place for Event 3. She was fine immediately after the event, but when the leaderboard updated, she was in 11th, and that hit home. We had about three hours before the next event, so we headed to the hotel, where I left her alone. She watched her phone and was quiet. Eventually, she started getting ready for the next event, Event 4, which was a gymnastics AMRAP in 16 minutes. Addy went out, despite feeling a bit down, and won the event in dramatic fashion. She started from behind but never slowed down and found herself in a race with the girl who was in second place (also the girl who clean and jerked 225). They happened to be side by side, and it was amazing to see Addy leave her in the dust eventually. Now that’s the way you bounce back.

The final event of the day was another one we knew Addy would struggle with. It was a sled push down and back three times and then a handstand walk to finish. The top 15 move to round 2, and then the top 5 move to the final round. Addy gave it her best. She pushed the sled down and back twice at a good clip but found herself slowing on the final lap and then got no-repped twice on her handstand walk, which placed her 17th. It was brutal to wait in the warm-up area for them to post the top 15, in a way that was reminiscent of checking if you made the high school basketball team. Her name was not on the list. This one hurt. We walked out, but we couldn’t leave, as there was an 8 p.m. athlete briefing. We had about 90 minutes, and she just wanted to be left alone. She was on the verge of tears but held it back as she had to sit and watch her competitors continue in the competition from the stands. Eventually, she came out of it. She didn’t go crazy. She didn’t cuss. She didn’t freak out. She just wanted time to sit. I’d pay money to learn what was going through her head.

We made our way back to the hotel, and I made another trip to the grocery store to get more food for the next day. By the time I came back, the key to the room was sticking out from under the door for me to use, and when I got in, she was already asleep with the door shut. The girl wanted to get to tomorrow.

Sunday was an early start because they rescheduled the missed event from Friday to Sunday. This meant we woke at 5 a.m. and were warming up at 6 a.m. Addy was to do the next workout shortly after 7. It was rope climbs, an assault bike, and thrusters. What a terrible way to start the day. She came in 7th, which was pretty amazing because the rope and bike favored taller athletes. But she was pissed. She wasn’t happy with that finish. The next workout was about two hours later, and it was the rescheduled event from Friday. This one I was worried about again because it involved that heavy D-ball. Addy went right to work and somehow took 14th place. She lifted that ball like I hadn’t seen before and was so committed that she came off with bruises on her neck and shoulders. The bruise on her neck was like nothing I’ve ever seen. She was not concerned at all. She was now in 8th place going into the final workout, which was a really good one for her. She said she was going to "send it." John Marshall told her he’d rather see her DNF than come in 10th or above. I headed back to the warm up area one last time before she went out and told her: "God blessed you with a gift, you've blessed us by bringing us on this journey, now go out there and celebrate it and kick some ass". Message received. Addy went out and won the workout. John was right that it was the round of 21 burpees that would seperate the crowd. Addy pushed before that because of her MUs but even being behind she was patient and confident and absoluately emerged as the leader here.  I can’t stress how hard it is to win a single event in your career at one of these competitions. My little girl has now won four at her first CrossFit Games. As she finished her third interview of the weekend, she found her way back to us, and we furiously updated the leaderboard. After about 10 minutes, we got a glimpse. She was in 4th place. Simply astonishing. Addy had a big smile on her face that was equal parts "hell yeah" and "I told you."

Now it was on to the closing ceremonies some three hours later. In that three hours, the leaderboard fluctuated because of appeals and review, and we were all worried that something would bump her out of 4th place. But we just soaked in the experience of the weekend. Eventually, all the athletes made their way to the arena floor, where they announced the first three places. Addy was one spot away from being up there, and I know that fueled her, but I also know she was so happy to have met these girls and had this experience. As we eventually found our way to leave, Addy had tears in her eyes. This time, it was because she was saying goodbye to her tribe. She had just found them, and now she was leaving them. She walked ahead of us, and I knew the look she had—the same look she had at 4 years old when she was trying not to let us know she was upset. But if I’ve learned anything from this process, it’s that this girl has got this, and I don’t need to fix anything anymore. I just need to be close enough behind that she knows I’m there.

We headed to the house 40 minutes away once again, where the family was. We ordered pizza and gave her some space. Eventually, we talked about the day and the weekend. But for me, that arrival was a bit different. When I got to the house, I took a shower and walked outside to have a seat with a view of the lake. I broke down—like, really broke down. It was overwhelming. My little girl, who we were first told was a failed pregnancy and had made an appointment to abort, just did something so amazing that I didn’t feel deserving of it. Why should I get to be the dad who experiences this? I felt humbled. This only lasted a few minutes before my wife and brother came out. They saw I was a wreck and offered some kind words and hugs. The night went on. We ate pizza and made an early start for home.

I wrote this to attempt to capture the ups and downs of the weekend. The strength that is Addy through winning and recovering from failure. The pride I felt as she won an event. The feeling of being useless when she was upset. The amazing partnership John and I had together. It was truly a once-in-a-lifetime experience. The only other person who will know the depth of it is John Marshall. We’ll forever have that. And Addy will forever have it too.

She’s chomping at the bit to get to training again because she wants to go back. She’s taking a week off to let everything settle. To recover. To let her hormones get back in line. I’ll keep you updated as she heads into her next adventure. Whether it’s this or something else, I can guarantee it’ll be exciting.

Thank you, God.