An app that allows users to create characters, define them, give them success and failure cases, learing, etc. It also allows them to pick destinations and style of writing. Then, the app can generate stories for them long form like novels. Tjhis could replace books. You can simply generate them on the information provided or let the user have even more control than just picking characters and locations. Let them select an outcome. A learining. A triumph or a failure along side the characters, setting, and period of time. There would be checks in place to make sure the AI didn't develop a whole novel about how a character successfully committed suicide or something. But, the app could create stories at will and with the shorter attention span we have now adeas it would give users the ability to craft multiple versions of a tale they want to learn about in the way that grips them the right way. This is technically absolutely possible with the right app/data-modle/ setup. There needs to be characters with defined traits and embodyments. There needs to be locations. There needs to be themes. Time periods, etc. I think users would like even the onboarding process of creating a character. Very viral signup process because they create one (abbreviated) character and a couple more variables and we show them a short story. Then we show them how to expand on the objects they've entered and add new ones. I'd be obsessed with this. Basically like saying "Tell me a story about a 46 year old man who is going through these specific probalems with these specific characters in my life but make it set in the future and on mars." If it was long form and good I'd read it over three nights and if it sucked after 10 pages I'd tell the app to generate it again or adjust the input variables. 